Welcome back to the computer
forensics path course 11.
We're talking about creating
a forensic disk image.
And in module four we're going
to talk about creating and
validating our forensic disk image so
far we've covered sterile media.
We've talked about how important it is
to write our evidence files to media
that is free of any other data.
We've also talked about validating
our tools in this module.
We're going to talk about how we actually
create the forensic image itself and
validated.
Now copying versus imaging
a full forensic copy
otherwise known as an image
will contain allocated files.
It's going to contain
files lack deleted files.
All are unallocated space,
unused space and an H P A And the D O C.
If there is one H P A.
Stands for host protected area and D O C.
Is an area that is used
to resize the drive and
they are done by
the manufacturer of the drive.
But you want to make sure that your
forensic tool is able to read that area.
All modern forensic software will
cover the H P A And the D O C.
Now if we just copy a file like in
the Windows Explorer re right click and
copy of file, all we're getting is
the allocated file and the file slack.
You're not getting any of
the unallocated space, deleted files or
unused space on that disk or
any of the operating system.
Yeah.
When you make a full forensic
image you are copying from
Physical bytes zero all the way
through to the end of that
drive everything forensic
copying versus cloning.
The difference between making
a forensic copy our cloning it dry.
When you clone a drive it is
a bit by the copy of the original
drive onto a drive of the same size or
larger.
So you're physically copying that dear.
You're cloning that drive.
You could put that drive in
your computer and boot it.
If the target drive is larger,
it should be filled with all zeros.
The remaining space that is not taken
up should be back filled with zeros.
And if you thoroughly wipe your media it
will automatically be filled with zeros.
And this is creating a clone
of the original drive,
not creating a forensic copy,
forensic evidence files.
They also contain a bit by bit,
a copy of the original evidence.
Everything will still be there.
But these are container files and
they're actually files.
So they may contain some extra data
like a header or a check song.
For error checking.
This will not affect our hash value
because when we hash it is only going to
hash the data, it's not hashing
the header and the check zones.
You can have compression with
these forensic image files And
you know, one is a compressed file.
So we could put that on media that is
smaller than the original evidence.
And you may want to use
that format to save space.
But remember these
are forensic evidence files.
There are container file,
it is really hard to alter them.
You would actually have to go into
a hex editor and physically alter them.
Whereas when you're doing the forensic
copy cloning it is very easy
to damage the original evidence.
So you want to be very careful
types of evidence files?
Well we have the DD which
is actually the same.
It will be the same size.
There's no compression in a DVD so
it will be the same size as the original
evidence Like I said before.
The EO one is compressed, so
is the A F, F and the smart.
And there are many more types
of forensic evidence files.
Remember our target drive,
we're going to use sterile media,
it must be at least the same size or
larger than the original evidence drive.
If we're using a non compressed image,
your target dry,
you have to think about the format.
And this becomes important when
say your taking a forensic
image of a mac computer and
you're going to examine that on a Windows
computer You need a file system
that can cross platforms and
that would be expat ex fat will work
in Mac or Windows or even Lennox.
So if you have a target
drive four minute X Fat,
you could use it on any
of those file systems.
So when you have your target drives,
make sure you have them formatted
in different file systems.
You probably want to Windows, you probably
want to expat, you may want to A PFS
depending on what you routinely examining
and what your examination machine is.
If you're examining a Mac computer,
you want to use a Mac computer.
You don't want to try to examine a MAC on
a Windows machine because you may miss
some important data.
When we're creating our
forensic evidence files,
we're going to create
an image of a drive and
this would be traditional
forensics dead box.
We would remove the evidence
drive from the computer.
We would use our target drive
that we've already prepared.
We would have already
validated our write blocker.
We validated our imaging software,
We're going to
connect our hardware write
blocker to our evidence drive and
we're going to connect
that to the computer.
This is showing you what a hardware
write blocker looks like.
And you can see here the evidence
drive is connected to it and
you can see it's an intel solid state
drive and the wire that is red,
black and
yellow that is the power connector.
The wire that is solid black going from
the right blocker to the evidence.
That is our say to this
is a state of Dr and
you can see on the left hand side we
have a blue cord that is a U S B.
Cord and that needs to be
connected to our forensic station.
And then the black court
above that is the power cord.
You can see here I have my
target drive label target drive,
we have our write blocker and over to
the right we can see it is connected
to our evidence and
that is connected to our computer.
And this is how the setup would look for
a hardware write blocker.
This one happens to be a tableau but
there are many other brands out there
on the market, the imaging process.
Once we've got our write blocker connected
and we're ready to go, we're going to
pre hash, we're going to take a hash
value with some type of imaging software,
whichever you choose.
And we're going to pre hash
the original evidence.
Then we're going to create a forensic
image of the original evidence.
Once the image is completed, we're going
to validate the image, we're going
to take a hash value of the image and the
hash value of the image file that we just
created should match the hash value of
the original evidence that we took before.
Once we've done that, we're going to do
a post hash of the original evidence.
We're going to hash that original evidence
drive one more time just to show we have
not made any changes to
the original evidence.
Once you've done that, you're
going to shut your write blocker off,
disconnect your evidence drive and
you're going to put it away.
We're not touching
the original evidence again,
we're going to work off of our image file.
We're going to do a walkthrough of imaging
and the items we're going to need.
We're going to need R N T F S B H D And
F T K.
Immature.
We're going to make a forensic image
of R N T F S B HD using F D K.
Immature in this walkthrough.
We're going to create a disk image
using R N T F S V H D And F T K Imager.
We're going to use images to create
a forensic image of the V H D.
Go to disk management and
attach your PHD again,
if you don't remember how to
do that actions attached Bhd
browse to where the virtual
hard drive is stored.
Select it, click open, click OK.
And the V H D will mount
once your phds mount and
note the disk number because we're
going to be imaging the physical drive.
The entire desk mayan is disk 11.
Yours will probably be different.
Now we're going to launch F D k Imager.
Once Imager opens, we're going to
go to file, Create a disk image.
It's going to be a physical drive and
we're going to click next.
Now we're going to use the drop
down arrow to select our drive.
Mine was Dr 11.
Select it.
Once you've done that,
click finish first we select the type.
I'm going to pick Roddy D
because that is the quickest but
we could go with an E 01 A smart or
an AFF.
I'm going to click next.
Then you give it your case number and
evidence, item number, you describe it,
you put your name in as the examiner and
you can add any notes if you'd like.
Then hit next.
Now it's asking for
the image destination folder.
So I'm going to browse
out to my desktop and
I'm going to make a new folder and
I'm going to call it N T F S V HD image.
I'm going to go ahead and
select that folder, click OK, now give it
a file name but don't put a file extension
and I'm going to call it class image.
You can call it whatever you want.
You normally name it something like
the case number for fragment size.
I'm going to put none and compression
since I'm doing a raw DD there is none.
If I was doing any 01 or another type of
image there would be some compression.
I'm going to click finish.
I'm going to click verify
image after they are created.
I'm not going to check any of
these other boxes, but you could
create a directory listing of all the
files in the image after they're created.
Which may be helpful in some cases.
We can talk about that throughout this
path, but for now I'm going to hit
start and you can see that it's processing
very quickly because it's small and
now it is verifying the image
now an image or finishes.
You're going to have information on
the screen and let's take a look at that.
We have our sector count,
we have the name of the image,
We have the MD five and Sha 1 # values.
Now what FBK immature is doing is it is
hashing the source and passing the image.
It's happening.
My source,
passing the image of created and
it's telling me that they match and
no bad sectors were found.
Now you can go ahead and close this
because Imager does keep a record of this.
If you click on image summary,
we could see the record and
it has the case information
that I added in.
It tells you the name of the software
that created it in the version and
it gives you some drive geometry bytes,
per sector and the total sector count.
And it shows you the MD five and
sha one check sums.
It also tells you the time you
started your acquisition and
the time you finished your acquisition.
And it also tells you the time
the verification started.
That is the MD five and
sha one hashes being created and
when the verification finished and
this is all saved out to a text file so
you can go ahead and close that.
Now let's go ahead and look at our image.
I say that out on my system in a folder
called N T F S underscore V H D
underscore image and we look there,
we can see we have the one file and
we have the text file.
If you look at the text file,
it opens up in note pad and
it has all that information
that we talked about.
It shows the case number, the item number
and all the information that I put in.
It tells you the sources physical.
And again we see the hash values and all
the information we looked at in the image
summer that was on the screen is
safe to this nice text file for us.
So we have it including
when we started and
when we finished with both
the acquisition and the verification.
So this is going to be important
information that you want documented and
FDK does provide that documentation for
you when you're creating an image.
If you're just doing a hash value or
verifying an image,
it does not save the file and that's when
we need to save that information ourselves
either through a screenshot or snip or
wherever you want to document that.
Now I'm going to take
a look at my image so
I'm going to go to file at evidence item.
It is a image file.
I'm going to browse store,
I saved it which was out of
my desktop in that folder.
I'm going to select the 0.1 file and
click open and
then I'm going to click finish and
we can see all our partitions laid out.
We can see our file system is fat 32.
We have another one that's NTFS and we
could see our extended partition also and
the extended logical partitions within it.
You can drill down further and
we see some of the documents we've seen
throughout this path and you can scroll
through and look at the information.
We see all the files and
folders have been working with
throughout the path on RN T F S V H D.
So we've successfully created our first
forensic image in the next module.
We're going to talk about using
the Lennox D D D D D C F L D D and
D C three D D commands to create
a forensic image end of walk through.